Max is a wilderness air scenting dog and
he's trained to pick up human scent so
he can find missing people for his
handler Alex Lyons we all smell whether
we like it or not and our scent gets
carried in the wind and that's what he's
trained to locate he gets that excited
he can't bark properly so he gives me a
half half thing max is one of the most
successful search-and-rescue dogs in the
country he knows what he's doing don't
you
dogs like max can really make a
difference when all reasonable hope has
been lost
I had been to Exeter to do shopping when
I came home on the bus and I rang the
bell to stop at the green and it didn't
it took me on further up here to quicks
farm and I said to the driver was all
right out and get off here and go
through at the Arboretum in our Macbeth
date but I got in the Arboretum I can't
find the way out
79 year old Margaret have ursin hadn't
considered that the woodland had been
neglected for over forty years and was
completely overgrown I get tied up with
the brambles in that this was all
covered in brambles and then it got cold
and dark and that so I laid under a big
tree which could have been that one it
was a big tree Margaret lay under that
tree for three days and two frozen
nights while the police force volunteers
and even helicopters with heat-seeking
cameras combed the area trying to locate
her yes and I was frozen so max was
called in to see if the dog's nose could
succeed where everything else had failed
and before it was too late
to tell you the truth I was not
expecting Feynman alive I thought
because of the weather
I thought she would have died of
hypothermia but Jen and I kept dozing
off no one until you came in third me
mm-hmm oh you came in pen name box
friend you did you yeah you were good
boy over where humans had failed
Max's nose cut through the undergrowth
and saved Margaret's life
you